# One-Function-to-Rule-them-All
Here we provide a pre-built R script and R Shiny application for identifying abnormally large perikymata from measurements and calculating the age-at-defect by individual and by tooth. Make sure you have downloaded both "The One Ring Shiny.R" and "One Function to Rule Them All.R" into the same working directory or the code will not run.

We have also provided data from the first and second right mandibular incisors from a single individual dating to the Middle/Late Colonial period (ca. A.D. 1620-1750) from Eten, a site on the North Coast of Peru, to demonstrate how the .csv file should be set up and provide a test file to ensure that the code is working properly. This data is in the .csv file "Individual Example Data.csv". This individual is part of a larger study in an MA thesis examining patterns of stress during the Colonial Period on the North Coast of Peru, which is currently being adapted into a publication. Dentitions were molded from this and other individuals during the 2022 field season with permission from the museum. Because these methods only require the creation of dental molds, they are minimally destructive and have little to no impact on the archaeological tooth, nor do they require the export of archaeological materials from the origin country. Future papers and the currently available MA thesis can provide additional context on these investigations (Sellers, 2023).

Sellers, Maria. 2023. Emerging Resilience and Patterns of Stress: Microscopic Evaluations of LEH Defects Among Individuals from Colonial Mórrope and Eten. George Mason University.
